-Can you guess what I'm thinking?
-Probably not.
I was thinking if we were wasps
we would be going crazy right now.
Yeah, that wouldn't have been
my first guess, but I think you're right.
I can almost smell it from here.
Oh, it's heaven.
[sighs] It's Caramel Week.
-How long have I got left?
-You can do this. You can do this.
[Sandi] It's Caramel Week.
With a luxurious layered signature.
I don't think the texture
of anything is right.
A technical where the bakers go Dutch.
Waffles, innit.
[Sandi] And the stickiest showstopper...
It's all just melting.
[Sandi] ...in the history of the tent
It's not as much of an erection
as I wanted it to be.
[Liam] Caramel Week.
Kind of excited.
Because I love caramel.
Not saying I'm good at it, but I love it.
[Sophie] This is the week
I practised most, and yeah,
it hasn't gone that well.
So yeah... We'll see.
[Kate] I must have put on a good stone
and it's all caramel.
[Julia] Tricky thing about caramel
is pretty much everything.
[Noel] Our nine remaining bakers
are about to tackle
three increasingly complex challenges.
[exhales]
All centred on the most delicious but
fickle home baking confection there is.
[exhales]
Morning, bakers,
I hope you're all raring to go.
Now, as you know, I'm part wasp,
so it's my favourite time of the year.
It's Caramel Week.
For your signature challenge today,
Prue and Paul would love you to make
eighteen Millionaire Shortbreads.
They have to be identical,
otherwise Prue will kick off.
Yeah, and nobody wants to see that.
You've got two hours and 15 minutes
to create your Millionaire Shortbread.
-On your marks.
-Get set.
Bake.
[Yan] How am I feeling about caramel?
Oh, my God. [laughs]
[Steven] Caramel will do
what it wants to do.
So you've just got to go with it
and hope that it works out.
[Kate] You've got to be careful
when you're making it.
I've already lost fingerprints
from burning myself.
What we're looking for in a Millionaire
Shortbread are three distinctive layers.
A beautiful soft shortbread.
A gooey yet firm caramel
and a gorgeous thin
chocolate coating on the top.
[Prue] The skill comes in getting
the caramel just right.
It has to be firm, but not chewy.
They could put coffee in it
or rum in it or orange in it.
I'm looking for something a bit special
and I'd like something
I've never had before.
[Stacey] I'm just getting my dough ready.
[Sandi] Most of the bakers have begun
by preparing a traditional shortbread.
[Yan] So it's 3-2-1. Three parts flour.
Two of butter. One of sugar.
[Sandi] But Julia is already tinkering
with this British classic.
I check that nuts are done by the smell.
If it smells like nuts they're done.
[Sandi] Julia's adding pecans
to her shortbread
that she'll top with a caramel inspired by
her mother-in-law's lack of a sweet tooth.
My mum-in-law doesn't normally
like shortbreads,
but she loves mine apparently, so...
[Paul] Impressive. So tell us
about the salted caramel.
I'm adding two teaspoons of sea salt.
Gosh, that's a lot. You better get
the caramel right if you have that much.
That's the thing, yeah, you kind of
have to get it more salty
than you normally would
for salted caramel sauce.
Well you seem to be under control
and very calm, Star Baker.
Star Baker. You're going for the double.
[Prue] Why not? Why not?
-[Paul] Good luck, Julia.
-[Julia] Thank you.
If it goes wrong,
blame your mother-in-law.
[Noel] James is also attempting
a pecan shortbread.
But his inspiration is far
from the family home.
So it's maple pecan.
I used to live in Chicago for three years.
I was going to say American.
Yeah. So very American flavours. They love
their tray bakes and things like this,
so I've gone back to my American roots.
[Noel] James' pecan shortbread
will be topped with a maple caramel.
And in another nostalgic nod to time spent
in the Windy City with his wife Anne,
he's hoping to add
a touch of American glamour.
If I've got time it will be brushed
with a bit of gold leaf.
Got to have a bit of bling
on your shortbread.
-What does it taste of?
-Never tried it. Try a bit.
Doesn't taste of anything.
Hilariously got gold on your teeth.
[laughing]
-[Sandi] Actual gold teeth.
-Am I like Goldie now?
I might take up rapping.
[laughing]
[Noel] For Tom, shortbread
couldn't be closer to home.
I think I probably should have
an upper hand, being Scottish,
but I don't know that I will.
[Noel] But even he's going nuts.
[Tom] I would normally just make
a plain shortbread, but I thought
it might be nice to add
a little bit more crunch.
[Sandi] Tom's making two giant
almond shortbreads,
which he'll top with stem ginger caramel
and tempered milk and white chocolate
before cutting them into portions.
It's a real race to get them in the oven
and just to get it in
and get it cooled quick enough
to be able to get the caramel on.
[Sandi] Whilst it maybe quicker
to get larger shortbreads into the oven...
[James] Right. The main thing is getting
it all done so I've got time to chill it.
[Sandi] ...they may take longer to cool,
layer and cut.
[Yan] I was going to cut them,
but with this time pressure
it's basically easier to pop them out
and slide them off.
I'm not good at cutting,
so I've just decided to make my life
a little bit easier
and just put them in moulds.
[Sandi] But those making
individual shortbreads...
I've got the same amount
in every single mould.
[Sandi] ...face layering with caramel
and chocolate 18 separate times.
I don't know if it's the right technique,
but I'm going with it.
It's too late to change now.
[Sandi] And Steven's separate layers
will be bigger then most.
They are literally about that deep,
so it's pretty much a dessert.
It's not a snack.
[Noel] His large layer of macadamia nut
shortbread will be matched
with a deep helping of orange caramel
and a thick chocolate topping
flavoured with coffee liqueur.
-[Sandi] Are you enjoying these?
-[Steven] I really like them.
They're quite substantial.
It's a handful for me.
And for me.
I think we'll do with two hands.
[Noel] Whilst hers may end up
smaller than Steven's...
Do the other one.
[Noel] ...Sophie still has size issues.
I kind of thought far too long about
the proportions than one really should.
So the guide for the shortbread is...
That. Eight millimetres.
About the same caramel.
Then it's got just a couple of millimetres
of ganache
and then a very, very thin bit
of tempered chocolate on the top.
[Sandi] Sophie's the only baker
attempting four layers,
all aimed at recreating the flavours
of her favourite chocolate treat.
So I'm doing a Jaffa cake
inspired Millionaire Shortbread.
Yes! Jaffa. Very excited.
[Paul] And what shape are you doing?
They are going to be circles. I'm actually
doing it quite a laborious way.
I'm cutting out shortbread
and then putting a little collar of
acetate around it and then filling it up.
So you're making little acetate collars?
It's laborious and unfortunately
you tend to get a little bit of leakage.
But it is a good idea because you will be
able to see the layers
and you will know exactly
what your proportions are.
Yes.
Going in.
[Sandi] Whilst everyone's shortbread
is in the oven,
Caramel Week can start in earnest.
[exhales]
[Sandi] All caramel begins with sugar
and precisely monitored heat.
I've done caramel a few times, which is
now going to be the curse of me
because the second you say
that it's all going to go wrong.
[Sandi] The bakers now face an agonising
wait for the sugar to melt.
[Tom] I'm really worrying
about burning the caramel.
That's the most likely thing to go wrong.
[Sophie] If I go away
and do something else
it will just, by the time I get back,
it will just have gone.
[Yan] You're leaving it
for as long as you can
to get that amber colour and
it's basically playing caramel chicken.
Sounds delicious.
[Noel] But avoiding burnt sugar
is just the beginning.
[Sophie] Caramel has a very naughty
habit of crystallising.
So just wiping some water
around the edge of the pan.
[James] So I'm brushing down the sugar
that has gone up the side of the pan
because sometimes if it crystallises
and then gets back into the caramel,
the whole caramel then just starts
to crystallise as well.
[Stacey] It's very annoying.
If it crystallises, it's game over. You've
just got to throw the whole thing away.
What I'm doing is putting in liquid
glucose, which helps stabilise
the sugar molecules, so hopefully
it shouldn't crystallise.
[Stacey] Well I've crystallised this.
Just can't bear with that,
it might well come back,
but I haven't got time to muck about.
So, I'm just going to redo it.
[Sandi] Stacey's second attempt at caramel
will sit on vanilla shortbread
and be topped with lime
and chilli chocolate.
So, I'm putting this
really nice spiced rum.
Which I stole from the drinks cabinet.
[Prue] Now, don't drink it.
I'm just going to have a little go.
[Prue] I'm sorry darling.
I knew he'd drink it.
It's okay. We're only putting one
tablespoon in.
[Prue] That's quite a lot of flavours.
I like the idea of the rum
and the lime together,
because those two are a great mixture.
[Stacey] The whole thing tastes
very different with the rum in it.
-But actually, it works with the rum
-[Noel] Wow.
I think, but we'll see what you say.
[Noel] It's like pirate tears.
[Noel] Liam's also planning
to flavour his caramel.
Looks all right, innit?
[Noel] But with something
a little less grown up.
I love the combination of salt-sweet,
so I've been developing it
for quite a while now.
Put it this way, every time my friend
comes to my house,
there's always a jar of caramel
in my fridge.
So he's been to my house a lot.
[Sandi] Liam's friend Jamie has repeatedly
approved his peanut butter caramel,
which he'll sandwich between
vanilla shortbread and dark chocolate.
So what I've done,
I've made my own peanut butter
and then once I've made the caramel,
I'll add a couple of tablespoons
of peanut butter into that.
How does that react with the caramel?
To be fair, it helps me in the sense
of getting the caramel to set.
Like salted caramel is pretty sweet
as it is.
The salty, like peanut butter
sort of balances it out.
Got a good feeling about this.
You know what you're good at
is very strong flavours.
Thank you.
Bakers, you have one hour left. Crack on.
[Stacey] Everything is back on track.
[James] Touch wood, this is looking
quite good.
I've got some cream and some maple syrup
and some butter to get into it
and then it will thicken up.
It gets so hot, it's like lava.
Quite lethal.
[Noel] Once butter and cream
are added to molten sugar...
Caramel gets even harder to perfect.
[Julia] Add the cream in,
and then I'm going to leave it to boil.
Roughly ten minutes.
So it gets thick and nice.
[Noel] The judges will expect a caramel
that holds its shape when cut.
It can't be chewy, it should be like...
[grunts] But it has to be firm enough
so that it doesn't start oozing out.
[Sandi] Unless the mixture is heated
to a precise temperature
the resulting caramel will be runny.
I've been bringing it up to a soft-ball
stage, which is probably around 115,
but I'm going to go a little bit higher.
[Sandi] But overheat it
or cook it for too long...
That needs two minutes more.
Just remember that.
[Sandi] ...and the caramel will harden.
[chuckles]
[Tom] This is stressing me out.
[Sandi] And whilst precision
is important for some...
[Kate] Need to get to 118 degrees C.
[Sandi] ...Yan has other ideas.
Not using a thermometer maybe
my biggest downfall. We'll see. We'll see.
[Noel] Without the aide of a thermometer,
Yan plans to make a salted caramel
to join a hazelnut
and crystallised ginger shortbread
with a chocolate orange topping.
All I'm using as a guide is that
I know that the amount of butter
and cream that I've used,
if I drive off the moisture,
once all the moisture,
which is why I keep looking like this.
Once it stops steaming that's all
of the moisture gone and it's ready.
Yep. They're looking good.
[Yan] Nice.
I'm just putting this in the freezer.
[Noel] Whilst their shortbread cools,
and if they are happy
with their caramel consistency...
You can see it's really thickening up.
[Noel] ...the bakers can begin
adding their flavours.
[Liam] Nom, nom, nom, nom.
[Noel] And while some are relying
on the classics...
[Julia] So much salt.
[Noel] ...Kate's up to her
old tricks again.
I have got a little herb tree at home,
a little bay tree.
It's had a bit of a haircut this week
because I've been practising,
so it looks a bit bare.
[Sandi] Her salted and bay flavoured
caramel will sit on a walnut shortbread
and it's the result of yet another
delve into her beloved history books.
I chose bay because of the Roman
meaning behind it.
It's like wealth and status, so it goes.
Oh, that's interesting.
[Kate] Kind of like that herbal thing
with sweet desserts as well.
My instinct is that too much caramel
is too sweet, maybe the bay is the answer?
Maybe. We'll have to wait and see.
I'll just have to be careful.
Right, I'm going to take this off
the heat now.
[Steven] Key moment.
I'm going to cool it in here.
I just put my caramel in like a chilled
baking tray for it to cool down
so that it's pipable.
The caramel took a lot longer
than I'd hoped
because it was just catching on this hob.
You've got that slight sheen sweating.
-Yes.
-[Sandi] That sheen.
-The stress sheen.
-It is.
[Tom] That's what I call it.
[James] The shortbread has seemed
to have cooled down nicely.
Right, this is a nice pouring consistency.
[Liam] You want really good layers.
Piping it allows me to get
an even amount in each.
It won't be like bang on
because I'm not weighing them.
[Sophie] It's not ideal,
but it's what I came up with,
so I've got to stick with it.
It will be fine.
[Stacey] This is it. Three more to do.
[Kate] I've got some walnuts.
It needed a bit of crunch to it.
[Julia] So I'm going to put it
in the freezer now to set.
Hopefully set.
[Noel] If the bakers attempt
to add their chocolate
before the caramel has cooled and set,
the distinct layers the judges
are looking for will be ruined.
I'm not patient. That's something
I don't have unfortunately, patience.
Not my thing.
[Noel] What are you doing?
[Sophie] I am cooling my caramel
a little bit.
-Right. In a bowl of ice.
-[Sophie] In a bowl of ice.
Very, very rapidly running out of time.
Going to pour the chocolate on now.
I'm just putting the chocolate on top
with the coffee liqueur.
[Tom] It's not going to set.
[Kate] Just dragging through
and making little hearts.
[Stacey] Slightly overdosed
on chocolate layer,
so I need to do it all the same now,
which is really annoying.
I need it to be even.
[Tom] I just don't think the caramel
is going to be set.
I just tried to pour
my chocolate into it and...
It's split.
[Sophie] Bit of a panic.
[inhales]
[Steven] We are really low
on time at the moment.
I've got to get these in the freezer.
If they come out and they sink,
it's not a great deal that we can do.
We're on the clock here.
[Liam] How long do we have left?
Bakers you have ten minutes left.
Ten minutes to bling up
your Millionaire Shortbreads.
[Sophie] Ugh. Very, very quickly
running out of time.
[Steven] Let's trial them.
[Stacey] I'm going to take them out
and put them back in the fridge.
[Sophie] Not sure what's going to happen.
I'll just give them the full tray.
[Stacey] Let's have a look.
[James] Please come out in one chunk.
There we go.
[Liam] Just worried
they might not pop out.
All right.
[Kate] The caramel's holding.
[Steven] I wanted to make sure they set,
otherwise they will start
oozing out of the sides.
[Stacey] It's very, very hot in here
and caramel doesn't like the heat.
How are you doing this, like Banksy?
Like a sort of stencil?
That's what I want. It's Prue.
Wow. Maybe you are Banksy.
Because no one knows who Banksy is.
I'm not Banksy.
Only a true Banksy would say
he wasn't Banksy.
[Sophie] They're still hot.
[Tom] No, I'm just serving them a slab.
[Sophie] I'm just going to shove
the rest on the platter just as they are.
[Noel] Bakers, that is it.
Your time is up.
Meh.
[Liam] 12. 14. 16. 18.
[Tom] Well, I've only got two
to give them.
Two giant sheets of shortbread
as opposed to eighteen.
[Sandi] It's judgement time
for the signature Millionaire Shortbreads.
-Hello, Kate.
-Hiya.
[Paul] I do like this pattern on the top.
It's quite delicate,
but it makes it look quite pretty as well.
[Prue] It's just that they have run
over the edge a bit.
[Paul] I think the biscuit's beautiful
and soft, but it holds its shape.
I think you've got the texture spot on,
actually, and I do like the flavours.
Get a slight aromatic flavour
from the caramel.
-That aromatic thing is actually the bay.
-[Paul] Yeah.
I really like it.
There's a huge difference between
the shortbread in these two.
-It's quite doughy.
-Hmm.
The flavours are sort of there.
The textures aren't, though.
-Yep.
-[Paul] I think your issue is the base.
-Hasn't got the texture of a shortbread.
-Yeah.
Maybe it's got too much pecan.
It's a little unpleasant.
[Paul] I do like the design on top.
I mean you're got some lips there.
-[Julia] Yeah.
-I'd like to see that nice and flat.
The caramel is bulging out on all of them,
which makes them equal.
I love the shortbread. Very nutty.
Gives it a nice edge, a nice little bit
of crunch to the softness.
-The caramel is a little too salty.
-Okay.
[Paul] I like the picture of Prue
on the top.
[chuckles]
I like the flavours.
It's more toffee-like than caramel.
I don't think
the texture of anything is right.
The nutty biscuit is quite coarse
and the chocolate is thick.
That's disappointing.
Obviously they're not identical.
You've had a bit of an issue
with time as well.
[Prue] But I can see
it was going to be really interesting.
You had the disc on top of the ganache
on top of the caramel
on top of the biscuit.
-[Prue] It's a four layered job.
-Yes, which probably didn't help matters.
[Prue] Very orangey.
The base is a bit dry. However the taste
the soft silky caramel
with the orange as well, together, works.
It is delicious. It is very, very good.
They look hideous.
[laughing]
[Paul] But they taste amazing.
They are supposed to be identical
and they look pretty identical.
You can see the layers.
My issue is the thickness of that biscuit.
-Yeah.
-The overall size of it.
Oh, it drops through very well though.
[Prue] Look at that.
For the first time
I don't like the flavours.
And I don't like the texture
of that caramel. It's far too bitter.
I know, but I'll tell you what, Steven,
I mean, for me, I love that caramel.
I love the bitterness of it. I don't like
really, really sweet things.
And the slight bitterness,
the orangey-ness, the macadamia,
everything mitigates the caramel.
They are so pretty and they are identical.
[Paul] They are very neat.
Very sharp from the side as well.
The flavours are pretty strong. The rum
comes through very strongly, the chilli.
It's a grown up taste.
But I don't really like the rum flavour.
The biggest issue I have is the depth
of that chocolate. It's too thick.
It looks to me as if you've had
a little time problem?
I decided to leave them in the tins
because I didn't want to have
eighteen splodgy messes.
[Prue] Lovely cracky top.
The flavour is great.
The caramel is not the right texture
because it's too soft
and you didn't finish it.
What's all this?
So you know Tetris?
-Yeah.
-Yeah, yeah.
So I don't know why, but I really wanted
to make a Tetris themed shortbread look.
[laughing]
Love the chocolate on top
because it's nice and neat and flat.
The simplicity of it works.
You've got a few issues
with the caramel pouring out the side.
The proportions 2 to 1. I like that.
Sick.
-Can you really eat that much caramel?
-Yeah.
[laughing]
[Paul] The peanut butter in there
is very clever. It's set beautifully.
It's crunchy enough, but again,
soft enough.
You've got that nice balance between
the two. But I love that flavour.
[clapping]
That is crazy. Oh my God.
-Good job.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] Well done, Liam.
-[Paul] Thanks buddy.
Well done.
That's wild.
Oh, my days. Paul Hollywood shook my hand
because I baked something really good.
I was like...crazy. Crazy.
It was all right, weren't it?
[laughing]
I added quite a lot of complexity
to that one, and stupidly,
obviously I should have just got...
Kept it really, really simple.
[Tom] I'm still irritated at myself
because I know I can finish it
and I know I can do it well.
Do you know what? The scariest thing
in there was disappointing them because...
It's the best feeling in the world
when they like it.
So...
[Noel] Caramel Week isn't
about to get any easier.
Right, bakers,
time for your technical challenge,
which has been set for you today by Prue.
[Noel] Prue, what caramel trickery
have you conjured up?
We're asking for a Dutch treat.
A Dutch treat.
I had one of those once. I can only
remember the first bit of the weekend.
[laughing]
Off you go. Hold hands. Skip away.
-[Noel] So cute.
-Right.
For your technical challenge,
Prue would like you to make
twelve stroopwafels.
Stroop is the Dutch for syrup...
-And waffle means waffle.
-Yeah.
[laughing]
You've got an hour and 45.
-[Sandi] On your marks.
-[Noel] Get set.
[both] Bake!
A stroopwafel. Never heard of them
before in my life.
Uh, well, I know they're Dutch.
That's about it.
Well, they're very flat,
sort of caramel waffles, aren't they?
[Sophie] Well, I'll give it a crack.
If it doesn't work out then yeah, I didn't
really know what it's supposed to be like.
Prue, why have you chosen a stroopwafel?
Because with any luck,
none of our bakers will have made one.
Ooh, you're cruel.
[Prue] And they have yeast in them,
which is unusual in a waffle,
but because they're so thin, if they don't
have any yeast it's just too brittle.
If they overcook the waffle they will also
be so brittle, they will break anyway.
They've got to get it exactly right and
that is the colour they are looking for.
[Prue] The caramel inside
should be very, very thin.
When you break it like that, the caramel
should stretch a bit. That's perfect.
Mmm. They're great, aren't they?
[Prue] The trick is you have to go
low and slow
so that you don't get grainy sugar.
There are plenty of things
that can go wrong
and they have only got one to practice on.
-Wow. Brilliant.
-[Prue laughing]
-I'm beginning to feel a bit mean now.
-No, don't.
I've just read the recipe about 12 times.
So I'm making a dough by rubbing the flour
and butter together, which I've done.
[Sophie] Some yeast, cinnamon and sugar.
Get it in there and give it a mix
and then add the wet.
Going in with my hands now.
I'm going in. I have washed them.
[Julia] The waffles I've made before
would be like pancakes
and now we have a dough.
I've never used a yeasted product
that I haven't kneaded,
so I'm just going
to give it a little knead.
[Liam] Two more for luck.
I'm now resting for 30 minutes
and now I'm going to start the caramel.
Make the caramel by melting
the sugar and the butter. Bit sparse.
[Kate] Sometimes you can stir it.
Sometimes you can't.
I'll probably give it a stir anyway.
It's hard to tell if it's up
to the right temperature
as we don't know
what the right temperature is.
Cook to the right correct consistency.
I mean, what the hell does that mean?
[Sandi] For stroopwafel caramel,
if the sugar isn't melted slowly
over a low heat before
the rest of the ingredients are added,
it will become grainy
and won't have its unique stretch.
[Julia] Not loving it.
I can't figure out
whether it's smooth or not.
I just feel like it's a little bit grainy.
Maybe they won't notice?
They will notice.
[Sandi] When caramel was invented,
do you know what it was used for?
An adhesive?
-[Sandi] Leg waxing.
-Ooh...
-Leg waxing... Yes.
-[laughs]
Well, they still call it
sugar waxing, don't they?
Yeah, absolutely. I like that you know
about leg waxing.
Of course I know about waxing.
I know about lots of things.
That's not caramel.
I decided to make a second caramel.
I'm just going to see
what happens if I do one more.
How's your second one looking?
It's still a little bit grainy,
but I don't know, I don't know.
[Stacey] My round two
is the same as round one.
This is absolutely rank.
[Kate] I'm not happy
with the caramel at all.
It's horrible. I mean
I would not want to eat this.
I honestly have not a clue
how to make that right.
[exhales]
Bakers, you have one hour left.
Right. On with the dough.
[Liam] Got to split the dough
into 13 balls.
[Julia] Make the test run by placing
the ball of dough in the waffle maker.
Press down and bake.
[Sandi] Prue's recipe allows
for just one practice waffle.
[Tom] This is really nerve wrecking.
The fact that we've only got enough
measure for one mistake is not very good.
[James] So how long do I cook these for?
God forbid it should tell you.
I am supposed to leave it like that
or is it locked, or what?
[Stacey] I'm doing two minutes
and then I'll see.
But the thing is if you cook them too long
they are going to burn.
[yelps] Need to take it off.
Why is that not opening? You must have...
Here, give me that. Give me that.
There you go. For goodness sakes.
[chuckles]
[Sandi] Good at baking.
Not very good at the tools.
[laughing]
God, they don't cut easily, do they?
Seriously, to be a baker
you need to be more muscly.
How are you meant to cut these?
Going to have to use a sharp knife.
I just don't get
how it's meant to split in two?
Trouble is you haven't got
that many to test with, have you?
[Kate] No. What a nightmare.
Not cooked.
[Tom] I wonder if I'm over-baking it?
They're a bit overdone.
[Liam] They are kind of bendy.
Waffles are not meant to be like crisp.
I'm just toasting them both sides
so that they are nice and crispy.
The stroopwafel
is a Dutch national treasure.
The biscuit equivalent of Rutger Hauer.
But it had humble origins
before racing to success
with the film Blade Runner.
Oh, no wait, that was Rutger Hauer.
Here's a film about stroopwafels.
[Noel] The Dutch city of Gouda
is known for its namesake cheese,
but is equally celebrated
for its distinctly patterned stroopwafel.
The earliest reference
to the stroopwafel was in 1784
when it was branded iemand koekem,
meaning poor person's biscuit,
made up of stale bakery leftovers
stuck together with caramel,
but it has since evolved
into a national delicacy.
Mike Van der Berg's family
has been making them since 1864.
-How are you?
-Fine. You?
-Nice. Nice sticky handshake.
-Yeah.
Is that from all the stroopwafelling?
Yeah. This is the machine for baking
the stroopwafels. We open it.
Wow, that's hot.
-200 degrees Celsius.
-200?
-Yep.
-So, don't lean on that.
[Mike laughing] No.
So put the dough in the middle
and then we wait for 35 seconds.
[Noel] Mike's bakery now uses machines
to mass produce his stroopwafels,
but I'm learning the old-school way.
-[Noel] Shall I cut that?
-[Mike] Yeah.
[Noel] Cut that baby open. Yikes.
[laughing]
Okay. And then we take the caramel.
It's quite gloopy isn't it?
[Noel] Mike's caramel
is a closely guarded secret,
but traditionally a Dutch stroopwafel
caramel uses molasses or dark treacle
-heated with sugar, butter and cinnamon.
-Mmm.
-Good when they're warm aren't they?
-Yeah. Yeah.
How many of these do you make a day?
25,000 waffles.
-[Noel] 25,000?
-[Mike] Yeah.
Wow. Well, if you want I could stay on.
I can do at least four an hour.
Yeah. [laughs]
[Noel] The stroopwafel,
the rags to riches tale of how
bakery leftovers glued together
with caramel became
the national cookie of Holland.
[Sandi] The next 12 stroopwafels
must be presented to Prue and Paul.
Ooh, that's better.
[Stacey] It does look better. Beautiful.
[Sophie] Bit brown on the outside.
I think that's all right.
This is like a little Slash alien.
I love those guys.
They were excellent.
What happened to them?
One advert they never worked...
-Yeah, one hit wonders.
-[both laughing]
One of them went onto do films.
One's just a bin in south London.
[Tom] Going to have to start taking
them off and getting the next one on
and then cutting and filling.
[Stacey] Really grainy caramel
going on here.
I'd just put it in the bin
if I was at home,
but I need to serve something.
[Sophie] So just making sure
that I get it right up to the edges.
[Stacey] It's very nice.
[James] I want to try and keep them
quite tight and neat.
Waffles, innit.
I'm making another caramel
because this is just disgusting.
Grainy. Grainy. Grainy.
I might have to go for a third time.
So I've done high heat,
let's try low heat. [groans]
Bakers, you've got 30 minutes left.
Amsterdam that's gone quick.
How many more have I got?
Two, four, five.
Six, eight, ten.
Got loads more to do.
[Yan] Multitasking.
[Sophie] Go to get a bit
of a shifty on now.
I've only got five.
I am always rushing in this tent.
This is not going to be right, too.
I still don't know how to make it right.
You can do this. You can do this.
You can do this.
-Do you want to press down on that?
-Yeah, I'll press down on that.
Oh, it's hot.
This one's burnt. That is not good.
That's not very pretty, is it.
[groans] Come on.
Right, bakers, I know there is still
a lot to do, but you have...
Five minutes left.
[Yan] Got five minutes?
-[Noel] You can do this, bakers. Come on.
-[Sandi] Yes.
That's it. Best out of a bad lot.
Down to the wire. [sighs]
[Julia] Honestly this is just gross.
This is it, my last one. I'm fine.
[Sandi] Okay, gorgeous bakers,
I am afraid your time is up.
Judges are not going to like any of that.
Troops, we need to see your stroops.
[Sandi] Bring up your stroopwafels and
place them behind the photo of yourself.
[Noel] Paul and Prue
are expecting 12 identical,
firm but flexible stroopwafels.
Filled with a stretchy caramel and
they won't know whose is whose.
[Paul] Let's start with this one.
Thickness wise
they are about right, aren't they?
They are all the same colour.
-Shall we crack one?
-[Paul] Yep.
[Paul] Right texture.
-[Prue] But the caramel's not right.
-[Paul] Caramel's not right. Very grainy.
[Prue] Right, shall we look at this one?
[Paul] They are all the same.
The texture of the waffle is good.
It's quite firm, but it's flexible.
[Prue] Tastes rather nice.
Same problem. It's very grainy.
Wow. It's identical to the first one.
[Paul] Now these look like
they've been slightly overdone.
They are quite dry. Breaks very easy,
doesn't it. Doesn't bend at all.
[Prue] And I think it's very grainy.
Yeah, it is. It's just sugar.
[Prue] They look beautiful,
but this one has got too much filling in
and it's all on one side.
[Paul] Very grainy on the sugar again.
Did none of you get the caramel right?
[Paul] Colour? Quite mottled aren't they?
[Prue] Much too much filling.
This is again too grainy.
I'm really looking forward
to getting one right.
[Paul] The waffle's good.
Nice bend to it, that one.
Very grainy on the sugar again.
[Prue] It's a pity
because the waffle is perfect.
[Paul] Hmm.
[Prue] Whoever this is struggled
with the cutting.
These ended up being cut by a knife.
How about the middle? Same old problem.
[Paul] This is going to be tricky,
judging this lot.
[Paul] They are all pretty much even.
There are a couple of darker ones there.
Not much of a bend there is there?
-[Paul] Grainy.
-[Prue] This one I pray will work.
[Prue] It's probably the worst one
we've seen yet.
It's an enormous amount of sugar.
[Paul] Slightly overbaked
and breaks very easily.
[Prue] Yes. A bit of a mess.
So even if somebody wins it's not going
to be a complete triumph is it?
-[Prue] No.
-No.
[Noel] So who deserves to claim
a bittersweet victory?
In ninth place, these stroopwafels.
They are overbaked and as you know,
your caramel is very grainy.
Eighth spot is this one. Yan, overbaked
and the sugar wasn't melted.
In seventh spot is this one.
There is too much caramel inside
and it was very grainy.
[Noel] Kate is sixth. Tom fifth
and Sophie is fourth.
[Prue] Number three...
Liam. They look beautiful. A bit unevenly
filled and the caramel is grainy.
In second place is this one.
[Paul] Got a little bit of a bend to it,
which is good. Nicely shaped.
Colour's fairly even, but grainy sugar.
Which leaves number one, which is Stacey.
Stacey, they are beautifully coloured,
just at the right flexible texture.
You have filled them very neatly,
but you have failed on the graininess.
[Stacey] I mean, I'm pleased obviously
that I'm not the worst of a bad bunch,
I'm the best of a bad bunch.
However, it would have been nice to get
a first after everyone did really well.
[Tom] Not brilliant for anybody.
If I'm going to be safe,
I really, really need to perform tomorrow.
It's kind of the worst I've done so far.
I just hope that tomorrow
is going to be good.
[Yan] There's an extra pressure on me now.
Not giving up.
Never give up. Never surrender.
[Noel] One challenge remains before
Paul and Prue choose
their fourth Star Baker
and the next person to leave the tent.
[Sandi] Caramel Week. Total triumph?
I think in the Millionaire Shortbread
we had a lot of triumphs.
In the technical challenge however,
we had a lot of failures.
I know we're trying to draw a veil over
the technical, but Stacey did come first.
She's doing well, I think.
I mean,
I loved her Millionaire Shortbread.
And the other one I think
that is doing really well is Liam.
I always love Liam's flavours.
[Sandi] Kate, it sort of feels to me
like she is one of those steady horses
that sort of comes up on the inside.
If Kate pulled off a great showstopper,
she could be Star Baker, couldn't she?
Yes, she could. I mean I think she did,
I think she came sixth in technical,
I think her signature was very good.
So yeah, I think she's in a good position.
[Sandi] Who are we worried about?
-Tom.
-[Sandi] Not his finest week.
His actual Millionaire Shortbread
tasted fine.
The problem is it was still
in the whole tray.
[Prue] James was certainly
in difficulty with his.
I mean the base was awful.
Okay, what about Yan? Because I loved her
little Banksy stencils of the Queen.
So I think she spends a lot of time
over-complicating things.
[Paul] The flavours were fine, but I just
thought the textures were slightly off
and she came 8th in the technical.
So again, she's in a bit of trouble.
[exhales]
[Noel] Hello, lovely bakers,
and welcome to your showstopper challenge.
Today, Prue and Paul would love you
to make a caramel cake.
So it needs to be a one tier cake
with three layers of delicious sponge.
Any filling you like,
and don't forget, it's a showstopper.
We want to see some powerful decoration.
You've got to show us
some mad skills on the caramel front.
And there must be some spun sugar
because we are crazy about the spinning.
[Noel] You've got three and a half hours.
-On your marks.
-Get set.
[both] Bake.
After yesterday, caramel is obviously
a sensitive subject for everybody.
We've got to bring it home today
because we are all at risk.
All it takes is for one
unset load of caramel
and that's the end of your time here.
This is their chance to really go to town
and show us what they know
about that beautiful thing called caramel.
There maybe caramel in the icing.
There will be caramel in the fillings
and there certainly will be caramel
in the decoration.
But there is obviously a danger
that it will be too sweet.
You sometimes need another flavour
so that your palette is distracted
from the pure sugar.
I would concentrate on making
a beautiful cake first
and then go to town with the sugar work.
Make that cake dance.
[Kate] It is Caramel Week, so the emphasis
will be on the caramel decoration.
-Morning James.
-Hello, there.
Right, tell us all about
your caramel cake.
So the sponge is a caramel flavour,
so it's got dark muscovado sugar in there.
I've left it a bit gritty so you get
little spots of it through,
so you get that little toffee taste.
A bit like the technical challenge?
Nice one.
[Sandi] James will layer his sugar-flecked
cake with buttercream and praline
before decorating with six different
caramel elements.
I've got sugared hazelnuts,
peanut brittle, sesame brittle,
spun sugar springs,
a little basket and some honeycomb.
This is a huge amount of sugar work.
I think I can cheat a little bit with
the spun sugar in that I can dip my nuts
and then use the leftover
to do the spinning. So...
I don't think you should say
dip your nuts on television.
Certainly not in caramel,
but thank you, anyway.
-Thank you very much.
-[James] Cheers.
[Noel] Like James,
Liam is also going for a big sugar hit.
I'm just pouring my black treacle
into my sugars and my butter.
Yeah, all the good stuff.
[Noel] Liam's dark caramel sponge
will be offset with ginger and cinnamon
and decorated with spun sugar, praline
and a spiced caramel drip.
What's the spiced caramel drip?
It's like a really trendy thing
that, that...
-Yeah, it's a trendy thing.
-[laughs]
It's literally just a salted caramel,
but you can drip it on the sides
-so it looks like a dripping effect.
-It runs down?
Yeah. Yeah it's very artsy.
[Sandi] Whilst Liam is using spice,
Kate is using fruit
to enhance her caramel flavours.
I'm doing a toffee apple cake
and I've got dried apples.
I want quite a caramely,
appley type of flavour.
And the dried stuff seems to give
that more treacly sort of flavour.
[Sandi] Kate's toffee apple cake is a big
hit with her family on bonfire night.
Although there is usually a fight about
who gets to eat the spun sugar fireworks.
The emphasis will obviously be
on the decoration,
but it's a baking competition,
so it's got to be about the cake as well.
[Noel] Tom is also using fruit
to flavour his sponge.
I'm doing a hummingbird cake,
which is banana and pineapple.
Oh, delish!
I do actually bake this quite often,
but I normally do it as cupcakes.
Like little muffins.
[Sandi] Tom will decorate his up-scaled
sponges with just two types of caramel.
A praline and a spun sugar nest.
Have you using caramel in anything else
at the moment?
-No, I'm not.
-[Paul] Just in those two?
Just those two.
Don't put the fear of God in him
straightaway. Give him a minute.
[laughing]
-Thank you very much indeed.
-[Tom] Thank you.
-Good luck.
It's really important that I get
this spot on, actually, after yesterday.
Um, Paul was sort of questioning
whether or not I had enough caramel in it,
but I'm hoping the nest will be perfectly
formed and he'll be happy with that.
We'll see.
[Sandi] But in order to have enough time
to perfect the all important caramel work,
the bakers need to get
their sponges into the oven.
I really need to impress them today,
so when they cut into the cake
visually, it's got to be good
and it's got to taste good.
So I'm going to do a tiger stripe
orange and chocolate cake.
So when you cut into it,
it looks like a tiger.
[Sandi] Yan's tiger striped sponges
will be decorated
with a caramel rainforest,
featuring praline trees,
a sugar-spun canopy
and a caramel waterfall
complete with honeycomb rocks
and a praline forest floor.
I am ambitious, but usually, I mean,
it looks better in my head sometimes
than translated onto a plate,
but if I held back
it wouldn't be a showstopper.
[James] Right, I'm going to go
in with the cakes.
That should bake in like half an hour.
[Kate] Right, sponge in the oven. Done.
That's one job out the way,
but there is still plenty to go.
Just trying to get as many jobs on the go
at the same time as I can
because I'm going to have to be
really efficient with my time today.
So I've got my caramel sauce
going on there
and then I've got the Italian meringue
for the buttercream.
I did Italian meringue buttercream
for my first signature,
which is the one that got me
the handshake. So I'm doing it again.
[Noel] Sophie's handshake-winning
buttercream
will sandwich her hazelnut sponges,
which she'll cover in a chocolate mirror
glaze and four different types of caramel.
Not trying to be funny,
you know we did the signature challenge
only yesterday and you ran out of time...
-Yeah.
-[Paul] How are you going to do this?
Maybe if we leave you alone,
do you think? Okay.
[Noel] Stacey has also taken
on an ambitious amount of caramel work.
Basically, I was reading my little boy
The Hungry Caterpillar.
So I had an idea of doing a theme
of a life cycle of a butterfly.
[Noel] Sitting on a caramel glazed
chocolate and coffee cake will be
Stacey's ode to The Hungry Caterpillar.
A 30 centimetre high centrepiece
constructed from spun and moulded sugar.
That seems quite intricate for caramel.
I did a practice on Friday
and right at the end of the three
and a half hour challenge, bang.
Just as long as it doesn't fall over
it will be fine.
Let's check my cake.
[Julia] Okay, I think this is done.
Oven off. Thank God for that.
They seem to rise nicely,
so it should be nice and fluffy.
Got a bit of sinkage in the middle.
Don't know why, maybe a bit
too much baking powder?
[Tom] Why is it so flat?
They are bad cakes. They are really
bad cakes. I'm going to make them again.
[James] I think I'm going to remake them.
[Tom] Oh, James, James.
It's falling apart.
[James] Me and you both.
Bakers, we are halfway through.
Halfway through
your showstopper challenge.
I don't want to be the timings guy
again, you know? Not what I want.
300 grams of granulated sugar.
Just getting some caramel on the go
to just get a start on my decorations.
[Julia] This is my first caramel
for my shards and spun sugar.
[Sandi] Julia's spun sugar dome
will sit atop her poppy seed sponge
along with caramelised walnuts
and dramatic decorative shards.
My sugar kind of crystallised.
So annoying.
The thing is I don't stir it,
don't do anything to it. At all.
And it just goes... [imitating popping]
Going back in with number two.
Please be okay. Please be okay.
I'm going to crack on with the sugar work
and it's a race against the clock again.
The focus for me is solely on caramel.
I've got to get this,
get the caramel absolutely right.
In fact, as I'm doing one thing
I'm weighing out the ingredients
for the next thing and the next thing
and the next thing.
[Noel] As usual Steven's going all out
for his showstopper.
Creating a caramel crown encasing
a mirror glazed red velvet cake.
I do love the royal family.
They are my second family.
So your Majesty, I present to you today,
the crown jewels in sugar.
Just take the heat out the pan
so it stops cooking.
It's come out a lovely colour.
[Sophie] God,
they are heavy pans. [chuckles]
[James] Worked first time,
so I'm dead chuffed with that.
[Sophie] I'm swilling this round
just to get it relatively thin
and then it will set
and then I just lift it off the paper
and snap it into pieces.
I'm just making my macadamia nut brittle.
Sesame seed brittle's next.
[Yan] This is going to be
the almond praline trees.
This is for the firework
going on top of the cake, the decoration.
I like things to be bright and colourful.
Wobble. What's that, pea soup?
-[Stacey] This is going to be...
-Washing up liquid?
[Stacey] This is part of a tree
and it's burning.
[Noel] Okay.
-So let me just quickly...
-Looks hot. I'm getting out of your way.
You're all right.
I just need to pour it into a jug.
Basically my face is all I've got.
There is no jug. There is no jug.
There is no jug.
You need a jug.
[Noel] Jug, anyone?
-Is this big enough?
-Thanks.
Yeah? I found that in a bin outside.
Yeah, do you know how much
I care at the moment?
[James] Back on track.
[Tom] The cakes were definitely better
than they were,
but still not exactly what I would like.
[sighs]
Okay, bakers, we've got half an hour
before we stop the show
to show your showstopper.
[Julia] I'm trying to caramelise my nuts.
Well, just do whatever I can
with them, really.
[Stacey] Loads of stuff to do.
I haven't got any room for error here.
[Kate] Shall I just do a few more
toffee apples?
[Sophie] Just filling my egg moulds
with the caramel.
[Yan] The only thing I've got to do
left is spun sugar,
which is a necessary requirement.
[Steven] Spun sugar is a bit
of a patisserie chef kind of thing
and if there is one thing that spun sugar
does not like it's heat and moisture.
So we are all up against it today.
You've got to be part baker,
part artist, part engineer.
As you flick the fork back and forward
it solidifies in mid-air
and makes a little sugar string.
It's a weird sensation
considering it's sugar.
Feels like an old lady's hair
full of hairspray.
[Tom] Now this is just not
stringing at all.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes left
to spin spin sugar.
[Julia] I'm just going to make a cage
using a ladle.
[James] Found a bit of plumbing pipe
I found in the garage.
[Tom] I'm hoping the nest
is perfectly formed
and that I can prove to the judges
that I'm not bad a caramel.
Very messy job.
-Quite a lot of sugar in your hair.
-Yeah.
-Is it supposed to be in there?
-Well, I'm thinning anyway,
but that's a quick way to replace
hair that's lost. Spun sugar.
You could just have spun sugar hair, yeah.
-[Steven] Yeah.
-[Noel] Spun sugar ponytail.
We could sell them. Noel and Steven's
Sugar-Spun Ponytails. 3.99.
Right, bakers, ten minutes to go.
I know you can do it. Come on.
[Tom] Right, cakes are cool.
I'm going to ice them.
[Tom] It's never going to be super,
super polished because I can't do that.
I might be a good plasterer, actually.
[Liam] I'm just going to go round
the edges and encourage it to drip.
Sometimes it can just look like
a hot mess, so I don't want that.
[Sophie] I'm trying to get
as smooth a finish as I can.
[Steven] It's sexual, isn't it?
[Stacey] Uh... It's not supposed
to look like that.
It's supposed to be all on the sides.
[Kate] This is my apple
on top of the firework.
The thing is, it's just getting
so hot it's getting very sticky.
I just want it to stick. I just
want it to... I just want to get on.
My fingers are so sticky.
[Julia] This is going to be fun.
It's just stuck. I don't...
Probably because the caramel is so bad.
It's not as much of an erection
as I wanted it to be.
[Julia] My spun sugar, it just
didn't work, so I need to do something.
Do not move.
Bakers you have five minutes left. Five.
[Yan] This is going to be the canopy
of the tree.
[Stacey] It's not working.
Right, my gorgeous bakers,
we have one minute.
Don't forget that your spun sugar
must be on your cake.
Everything has gone bleurgh.
[James] Oh, mine's just
sticking and melting.
[Liam] So is mine.
[Sandi] Bakers, your time is up.
Spun sugar is just going bleurgh.
[Sandi] It's time for
the caramel showstoppers
to face the judgement of Paul and Prue.
Sophie, would you like to bring up
your caramel cake?
[Paul] Very, very elegant.
Thank you.
Obviously humidity
has attacked the caramel
because the nest was much bigger.
[Prue] But beautiful mirror glaze.
[Paul] Hazelnut chocolate.
-What's not to like?
-Yeah.
The light buttercream you've got
in there as well is delicious, like silk.
Delicious. I'm very impressed
with the eggs.
They've got salted
caramel inside, have they?
[Sophie] Yes, they have. Yep.
[laughing]
[Prue] How can you eat
that much caramel, Paul?
[Paul] It's a skill. That is magnificent.
Thank you.
It's a little bit on the simplistic side.
You have spent so much time
on all the extras
and they're not really part of the cake.
Flavour's lovely. Real caramel taste.
I like the brittle.
You can feel it in your teeth.
It tastes likes you've over-mixed
the sponge because it's a bit rubbery.
I think it looks really appetising.
I love this drip effect as well.
It works you know.
Great colour on that cake.
[Prue] What's so good is the contrast
of the buttercream and the cake.
Gingery, treacly, lovely.
The bake is good. The textures good.
I think you should be very proud
of yourself with that cake.
I love the colours, I love
the butterflies, its just wonderful.
The cake however, the icing on the cake
more specifically is too thin.
It's just run off.
It looks slightly slimy
rather than luscious.
Delicious chocolate cake.
Texture's perfect.
It's got a delicate flavour in there
and it's baked well.
My big issue is the finish.
The shards are nicely done. They are nice
and thin and I bet they are crackly.
But on the walnuts I think
your caramel was a bit too thick.
I actually love the taste of the cake,
I think it's beautiful.
Um, the poppy seed really works in it.
I think you've created
quite an elegant cake.
You've ticked all the boxes. Well done.
Thank you so much.
I think that is fantastic.
The spun sugar, the cinder toffee,
the caramel river. Ingenious. Yeah.
Very original.
So we've got an animal print
in the middle of our cake?
-[Paul] Wow.
-[Prue] It's very clever.
[Prue] The sponge is a little bit tough.
Love the flavours. That blend between
the chocolate and the orange
works really well.
It is slightly overbaked.
[Paul] It looks like something out
of Game of Thrones. It is very clever.
The mirror glaze is absolutely
extraordinary. It's so shiny.
The, um... Okay.
[Prue] How do you get in there? Crunch.
Oh, look at that.
Your cake is far too stodgy.
[Prue] It's too solid.
Overall, a bit disappointed.
I think the look's great,
but the inside has the issue.
[Paul] You've got the spun sugar
as the nest
and you've got a bit of nut brittle
on the side. It's quite basic isn't it?
Because this is a caramel cake
the centrepiece should be caramel,
although they're very pretty, the flowers,
I think they've not done you a service.
[Paul] Okay.
Oh, Tom! It is gluey, it's underbaked,
it's got no crumb.
[Paul] How did you manage with those
beautiful ingredients to create that?
-Did you make it at home?
-Yes, but as muffins.
So I think because they are smaller
they cook better.
In hindsight, as a cake,
probably not the right recipe to use.
-[Prue] The butter icing is nice.
-[chuckles]
-That's something.
-[Prue] It's got passionfruit
and I'm glad to say that you left
the pips in, which I love.
I like the crunch.
There are so many colours in there
and they are really clear and bright.
[Paul] I love the toffee apples.
They look great.
I just can't wait to try this, actually.
-[Prue] Wow.
-[Paul] Wow.
Wonderful apple flavour.
Really good and light.
Wow, that's beautiful.
The apple, I've just had a big piece
of apple with the cake. That's delicious.
And actually, the cream cheese frosting
when you eat it together again,
another level.
But the apple is masterful in there.
And the cake is sensational.
-[Paul] Very well done.
-[Prue] Well done. Very well done.
-Thank you very much.
-[Paul] Thank you.
What did you think of
their mad caramel skills?
I was really impressed with
the imagination of what they did.
[Paul] Kate did very well.
Do you know, I think
that was the best tasting cake.
I asked her for the recipe because
I have got to know how to make that cake.
And Liam stayed up there, didn't he?
[Paul] He did. Again beautifully spiced
and with that hint of ginger
that sits on your tongue at the end.
It was very, very good.
When you're looking at the people
that are in a little bit of trouble,
I'd say Tom. That, unfortunately,
was not a good cake.
-I felt for him though because...
-I felt for him, too.
He knew he had an off day.
James' cake was dry.
He went caramel on everything,
but the problem was he didn't put
the caramel parts on the cake.
It's like we're having
a bag of sweets with your cake.
Well, we don't envy you having to decide.
But what Noel and I both want to know
is how sick you're feeling. Paul?
Oh, dear. The amount of sugar.
I crave a bag of crisps.
[Sandi] Oh, good. Something healthy
to get yourself back on track.
Yes.
Well done, bakers,
on your caramel crusade.
Now, this week, I've got the great job
of announcing Star Baker.
And the Star Baker this week
made some pretty fine shortbread,
but in the showstopper
produced a cake so banging
that the judges wanted the recipe.
Set off the sugar fireworks
because this week's Star Baker is...
Kate.
Are you joking me?
[all applauding]
Well done.
[Noel] Well done. Well done.
So that means I get to do the next bit,
which I absolutely hate,
but I'm afraid
somebody has to leave the tent.
And the person we're saying
goodbye to today is...
Tom.
I'm so sorry.
Justified. [chuckles]
It was a bad cake.
-[Sandi] I'm so sorry.
-[Tom] It was a terrible cake.
-[Paul] Unlucky, buddy.
-[Tom] No, no it's fine.
Disappointed to be leaving,
but I did a really bad cake
and everyone else did excellent cakes
and I think it's totally fair.
Going to miss you.
Poor Tom, because he really did make
a mess of it.
That cake was raw.
It was just an off day for him.
You were a little bit lucky.
Yes, I know. Don't I know it.
Scraped through again. I need a beer.
[laughs]
I'm sad for Liam because he thought
he was going to get Star Baker.
Oh, my days.
-[Prue] You want to stay up there.
-Yes.
[Prue] Because you really are flying.
So close.
Didn't expect that at all.
I'll be walking round all week,
like, massive smile.
-That cake was fantastic. It really was.
-Thank you.
Kate's apple cake today was, I think,
the best cake I have ever eaten.
In my life.
[Kate] Hi, Ma, you okay? Guess what?
I got Star Baker this week.
[cheerful shouting on phone]
[laughing]